Okay, one day we said in this catalog was the description of a small incunable of a religious text which caught my eye.
As every antiquarian bookseller knows, religious texts, even the 15th century edition, are
really of great commercial value.
However, the rather short description of the book mentioned a woodcut on the title page representing a woman and a dog just found my attention, a secular representation in a religious book, question mark.
The books were exhibited a few days before the sale, and I went to the exhibition to look at the little volumes.
The moment I saw the title page, I realized that the woman was not a woman and the dog was not a dog.
Much more appropriate to the text is to be represented St.
Jerome.
That's a wonderful story.
St.
Jerome and the Lion.
However, the cataloger who described it as a woman and a dog could be excused.
The style of the wood cover is far removed from the stuff, and the stiff representations usually found in 15th-century books, and the flowing down of St.
Jerome could be taken for the one of the woman.
You see, he understood, didn't he?
He had his knowledge.
Right, yeah.
But he knew this, you see.
He knew, exactly.
Just as the nervous movement of the lion for the movement of the leaping dog, it was obvious that the illustration was the work not of the usual artist of woodcutting, but of a real artist.
Who was he?
I was now at the point where my former boss stood in front of my lathe to find a way to make it run.
I'll let you see that he speaks about it.
that he worked in the machine shop.
And he had 10's up.
And he worked all right.
He was pumped.
He was there every day, and so on.
And I said, the machine stopped.
And he stood there.
I took a look at the imprint at the end of the text, which said, Basel, Bergman, B-E-R-G-M-A-N-N, Bond, small D-O-N, O-P-A-O-L-P-E, 1492.
And here Mr. Knight, K-N-I-G-H-T, opened the spool and put the oil in.
This was the printer and the period of the famous illustrator book, The Ship of Fools, by Sebastian Grein, the illustrations of which have been attributed to Albrecht Dürer, which I write about in my book, but I have a Dürer engraving on the cover of it.
It needed only a little research to ascertain that the woodcut of a little book at the Swan Galleries was a work of Dürer, who at that time was traveling through Basel, where he worked for the printer Bergmann von Holfi.
I bought the book at a low price and sold it shortly afterwards for what appeared at the time a very nice profit.
Although it was not this profit which gave me so much pleasure, as the fact that it gave me back the confidence in the work I was doing and have continued to do until this day.
Here I am ending my memoirs.
The forty years that followed were not eventful enough to be recorded, and at least part of it was witnessed by those who have read the above.
On the whole, there were happy years, and happy people have no history.
My hope is that this happiness will last before the end of my days.
This was written in August of 1987.
It's very lovely.
Yeah, and I had really pushed him.
He never wanted to write.
And then his grandson, the oldest one, wrote him a very nice letter and said, well, you say happy people have no history, but I'm still interested in what happened to you after.
Well, I am too, actually, because...
Well, you see the point was, he was so down in that machine shop, because he was not able to do anything.
He was there in the morning at 8.30, or 8 or 7.30, whenever it was, he was never thinking about it.
On Christmas Day, or New Year's Day, had a big party.
And he came home and was drunk, he didn't drink at all, so.
He had a bit of alcohol and was drunk, and he came home and said, this is the happiest day of my life.
And the kids looked at me.
So tell me then, he started?
He started, so he said, the last days when it was pretty clear that the war would be over, he said, you know, maybe I should not leave there, because at least it's little that I earn, but I know what I earn, and God knows,
When I start all over again, I said, oh, God, is his self-confidence so low.
But the day that the war was over, he was fired.
So there was no two ways.
So what kind of work did he specialize in?
Did he have a shop in New York?
Did he?
Oh, no.
That come next.
By that time, I wanted to go to school.
I had already been, no.
It was, I was not gentle, but I said, I cannot always say all this doesn't work.
And so we discussed it, and he said, I will start from here anyway.
Our apartment is big enough.
Now, you're living up on 92nd Street?
Did you move in with your in-laws?
No.
Oh, no, no, no.
When he got the job with Erwin, all the time, he moved to Brighton Beach for two months.
Everybody was sick.
Florence had gifteria.
Claude had gifteria.
I mean, you know,
And from there, I moved to Kew Gardens, not in this apartment, but to Kew Gardens.
So you've moved here for 45?
Since 541, since 41.
Wow.
Right.
So where was Emil's business, out here in Queens or in Manhattan?
I can show you his business.
It still looks the same way as it looked.
I'll show it to you if you want to get it up.
So actually you can see it from here?
No.
We're now in the... So how long have you lived in this apartment?
Since 1967.
Okay, and so from this place, he operated his business for about 35 years or so.
Exactly, and very successful.
So most of his business was mail-added, would you say?
Yeah, yeah.
But he had customers who came, which he never liked.
He said he liked his customers better if they don't come.
And what was his specialty?
You know, medicine and science.
So he continued with medicine and science.
Oh, yes.
There was never any doubt in his mind.
And this is his start, and this he would continue.
Did he sell to institutions, to medical schools?
Oh, yes, to many, and the Academy of Medicine.
I saw the other day that they look for a new chief librarian.
I don't know the name, but he knows them all.
Did he acquire much material in Europe after the war?
Yes, he traveled almost every year.
Once a year, he went to Europe.
So would you say that because he was a European, he knew where to go to get the material?
Oh, yes, of course.
He knew Munich, he knew Berlin, he knew Holland, he knew Paris.
I mean, he knew Paris in particular, you know, Paris.
And where were most of his customers here in the United States?
would you say?
Most, yes.
So basically, you know, Roger Stoddard at Harvard University says it's, he really credits these emigre booksellers.
Roger Stoddard was a close friend of him.
Well, he's, you'll see in my book, I did.
No, but maybe that was my, maybe I'm too touchy.
It was very shortly, very shortly before, you mean, died.
He had bought, he had sold neoclassic books to Studdard.
Studdard was very interesting.
Emil collected them.
He loved them, didn't want to sell them, but finally he did sell them.
And Studdard writes an article about them.
I'm sure if you're talking about neoclassic books.
I haven't seen them in quite a while, but I'll... Studdard didn't remember it.
I'm just looking, I'm just looking at his stacks of... Well, you know, I told you, I've sold the whole business.
Oh, you did?
To John, to Hill.
And I'm so amazed that... Who did you see you told me?
The man who comes from Belgium.
an antiquarian book dealer here who comes from Belgium, you told me something.
He's a close friend of Jonathan.
And Jonathan was really almost like a student of Emil.
You know, there was such a relationship almost like between teacher and... He's in New York.
He's in New York, yes.
He does the same books as Emilie did.
Now, why did he take this stuff?
Because these were...
And this I didn't give him.
These were Amos Cardinals.
Oh, I see.
I didn't give him.
And these... Oh, and this is correspondence here.
And this is correspondence.
He wasn't interested.
I gave him all the books.
And how long that he was interested, I gave him because... And Jonathan was there.
Care with me.
And I sold him the business.
And that was good.
Because I know I did not want... So did Amos...
He knew where to go to... In Europe.
Indeed, he knew.
A lot of people feel that, you know, that because of these... Is this where Jonathan Hill is right there?
Jonathan, I'm sorry.
Sorry, Jonathan R. Hill.
That's his... It's Hill, not Hall.
Huh?
I wonder if he's still at 470 West End Ave.
When was his catalog?
If he's not there, he's...
wrote further down.
He's in the telephone, but I can't give you the telephone number.
Oh, it's right here, it's right here.
Yeah.
7, 8, 5, 6, 8 o'clock.
When is the catalogue?
This is, uh, 93.
93?
No, he was in the old apartment.
He moved.
But, uh... But, um, I mean, you'll find the telephone very easily.
I said he was a close friend of, I don't know...
Not clothespens anymore, but Schreiber was a clothespender.
So he, so basically, you know, was it books?
Did he go in manuscripts?
No, manuscripts was, well, I should say that, you know, at one point he had a customer who was in Cincinnati, who came to him, was interested in gardening, and wanted trees and all this, you know, and that was somewhat nameless life.
But he became a very big customer and bought almost anything, and Emil bought for him in auction.
So there were unusual things, you know.
And I remember once we had the birds, who made the birds, well-known birds.
Not Audubon.
Audubon birds.
One day, Emil bought that in auction for a Yale professor.
Really?
Yeah.
I mean, that's...
Is this Emil here?
Yeah.
This is Emil.
No, no, this is Claude, I'm sorry.
I'll show you.
I have something.
That's your son.
That's my son, yeah.
And that's when he works.
But he has nothing to do with our books.
Not the least bit interested.
My daughter is, but he's not the least bit interested.
So anyway, he had these Audubon birds, which he bought for a Yale professor.
And I said, how will they get to Yale?
And he said, you will drive me up there.
I said, no way will I drive you up there.
And if you have an accident in the car with the pictures of Yales, you bought them for $60,000, I pay for those?
So the professor came down.
Did he enjoy the business?
Very much so.
And he loved the books.
And he had, you know, for instance, there was a
He was studded, and there was a librarian in Yale who he liked very much.
The librarians all liked him, and he liked them, and so on.
Now he enjoys his life.
So when he went to Europe, did he know where to go?
Did he buy from individuals?
Did he buy from schools?
Because right after the war, they needed money, so he must have... In Paris, he knew everything that they had worked in Paris, for himself, for Mr. Bonnier.
So he went down.
And what kind of things were they looking for?
They weren't looking for.
What kinds of things?
Well, he had many physicians.
Just the other day, I talked to Jonathan, and Jonathan said, you know, and you wouldn't recognize the business anymore.
We barely have a doctor anymore, because the doctors are not as
flush as they were.
What you get now is Silicon Valley.
I said, well, I'm glad.
I mean, isn't that out?
So is this where he kept the stock in here?
This is basically.
So he really didn't keep that much stock on hand.
He had about 300 books, I would say.
That's all, huh?
Yeah.
So basically he brought and placed things.
Right, right.
And he, you know, the French book dealer, any decent book dealer in France has a personal collection.
Amy never had a person collection.
She said, I'm a book dealer, I'm not a collector.
And so, if he hadn't been a collector, what kinds of things would he, you think he would like it?
He had a book by Marie Curie with an inscription by her.
And he kept that for himself?
No, he didn't.
He kept it a little bit longer than the other books.
So who did he sell that to?
I think it went to Jonathan.
Ah.
Yeah.
So, you know.
What do you mean, after Emil died?
After Emil died.
Well, so that he didn't sell it, he kept it.
No, but he didn't have it very long.
I see.
No, it was not, it was not very long that he had it, so.
That's, that's, that's, yeah.
So, what else?
This is great.
Well, I didn't realize he worked here.
He already worked here.
I looked for something.
No, this is probably not a name.
Have you ever been to London to the dealers?
Yes.
Dr. Weill, is that a name for you?
E-W-E-I-L.
Yeah.
And who is he?
He was a book dealer in London.
Was he also a German refugee?
Oh, really?
Is he still alive?
No, no.
He was considerably older than Emil.
Who among Emil's colleagues are still alive, would you think?
I talked to Phoebe up in Westchester.
Yeah.
I don't think any of the Germans is any more alive.
And you said you are interested in the German Jews.
Well, it doesn't, yeah.
But I don't know.
I think your best friend, and I don't know how pleasant he will be, how much he... Oh, yeah, there is also... Ah, there are two brothers.
Well, actually, here...
This is Anatole Brown, and Anatole Brown is not his name, and this is in French.
Oh, this is an obituary, right?
It's an obituary, which appeared in the English trade paper.
Can I read it?
Sure.
Can I read it into my tape recorder?
Do I?
If you want to.
It'll be quick.
It's in French.
No, it's in English.
It's in English.
This, and you might get these.
I have these.
You have that.
So that's September?
September 90, 1990.
September?
1990.
September 10th.
Oh.
Every week?
Yeah, every weekend.
1990.
And that's AB.
That's AB, and there is his obituary.
Page, obituary of Dad, page 85, I think.
I'll find it.
Yeah, that's in there.
I have these at home, actually.
You have these at home.
I have a few others there.
Okay.
I think I put out the copies of it.
It was a translation.
Okay, so the death of Emil Offenbacho on August 16th is a very sad event.
He was a nice, charming, modest, and clever gentleman.
He had a quiet sense of humor.
He managed to be brilliant without ever being flashy.
More competent tens will say his place in the trade.
I met him only about 1970, while he issued his first catalogs well before the Second World War.
In fact, a few years ago, he laughed and laughed when I told him that two of his pre-war Paris catalogs had such an extravagant price in a French auction.
In his main field, medicine and science, he had all the great books and knew everything.
He was fond of the obscure, interesting books with an innocuous title, like Sulzer, S-U-L-Z-E-R's pre-Galvanic discovery.
He had a supreme knowledge of the rarity of books and a remarkable instinct for what was a good book.
That's good in quotes.
While he was an expert in various fields, far from his main subject, notably Neo-Latin poetry, his forte was chemistry.
He had helped to assemble the foremost collections in this field, built since about 50 years.
That he much contributed to the Duveen, D-U-V-E-E-N, that was the person you mentioned.
Collection is well known, but he did the same for many others, notably the Sondheimer, S-O-N-D-H-E-I-M-E-R, collection.
He was not a tycoon of the book trade.
He was probably the most knowledgeable dealer in his field, working in the Tauber, T-A-U-B-E-R, slash Weil, W-E-I-L, tradition.
But in my opinion, incomparably more serious than Dr. Weil, who in many cases had to rely on his own sole authority, a phenomenon not too far from what the French call esbouffe, E-S-B-R-O-U-F-F-E, of legendary rarity.
was most carefully used by Mr. Offenbacher, that's a phrase, of legendary rarity.
He did not tamper with bindings, provenances, samulbans, as a few others who liked to manufacture the ideal copy of an interesting book and smartly used the skill of binders or an endpaper inscribed by Hugo or NX Libres by Lavoisier.
His career was very long, but he admirably adapted to the new trends of the trade, while in the 40s he had exchanged a copy of Hooke's, Lectiones,
L-E-C-T-I-O-N-E-S C-U-T-L-E-R-I-A-N-A-E, against a copy of Newton's Cachepia, he would perfectly accept the fact that Hooke's book was much less appreciated in absolute terms in the 70s, and he would continue buying it and selling it at the right price.
He bravely bought for hundreds of dollars the books which at the beginning of his career could not be sold at $5.
More important, he continuously improved his bibliographical knowledge
using systematically the new tools as DSB-PMM, those must be bibliographies, although no one knew better the limitations of these works.
Well, in some sense, every good dealer in medicine and science has been his pupil, his death, and the retirement of Mr. Gurney, G-U-R-N-E-Y, probably his only peer in the Anglo-Saxon world, marked the end of an era.
Anatole Braun, B-R-A-U-N.
Who is Anatole Braun?
He has an entirely different name.
He's a Frenchman.
who met Emil a few times in science.
So this is not his name?
No, not his name.
And I don't know his real name.
Where did this appear?
In the English paper.
Oh, I see.
So that's basically the counterpart of the AB maybe?
Right, yeah.
I see.
It's the English paper.
So he had this reputation in England as well, apparently.
Oh, absolutely, yes.
Yeah, he was kind of international for the
albeit a small area.
I mean, you know, he didn't touch anything.
Now, did you work with your husband in the business?
Never.
I mean, when I retired, when I was 70 and was retired, and even had some doubt if I wanted... Now, this is one... That's the AB piece.
Yeah.
That's another AB piece, the one that you... Yeah, it has a date here, November 2, 1994.
And I thought I had a third one.
There was a very long one of one of also a younger book dealer who was very fond of Emil.
But Emil kind of had taken more to Jonathan Herold, but they were good friends too.
But I forget his name right now.
He is a book dealer and his father is a book dealer.
And the brother is better known, who deals much in Spanish books.
No, no.
No.
I'll ask Jonathan.
Jonathan, yes.
OK, anything in there I should know about?
No, there are some photos, which are not particularly good.
Can I just take a look at it?
I can see.
Yeah, right, that you can see, yeah.
And they're all, you know, enlarged.
Grandchild?
It is one grandchild, yeah.
And all the grandchildren and the children live outside of New York?
They all live around San Francisco.
Which is beautiful out there.
Right, it is.
But you like New York?
Well, I like New York, yes.
At the beginning, I like New York.
And then I have my place here, you know.
This place where I go is a place for retirement home, and I'm not...
Can I just take a quick look again at the autobiographical, the memoir that your husband wrote for his grandchildren?
Don't you think?
Did I just put it away?
I think you put it away.
I just read the end.
I just want to just briefly see if there's anything about bookselling that I should know about.
So you talked him into doing this, right?
You suggested he do this.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Absolutely.
Oh, this?
Yeah, the biography I did, yes.
The books, he was involved with books long before he knew me.
Siegfried Schwarzschild.
That's his uncle.
That's the uncle.
S-I-E-G-F-R-I-E-D-S-C-H-W-A-R-Z-S-C-H-I-L-D.
I would not want you to use his name.
Because he has still relatives here.
I mean, that's what I... He was the Uncle Fritz.
He was the Uncle Fritz, right, yeah.
Okay.
I'm just going very quickly here, as you can see.
I do not.
I mean, that's... That's fine.
I understand.
Your husband never went to high school?
No.
I told you that.
He went to eighth grade.
That's always... So he's not formally educated.
I told you that in the beginning because that's what everybody always asks.
At the age of 16, my father placed me in a small banking firm in Frankfurt.
His opinion was that training as a banker was the best basis for any non-academic career.
I worked in the bank for three years.
Looking back at that time, I am surprised at the enthusiasm I brought for my work, which during its latter part included some lively participation in the stock market.
I am sorry to say that I did not derive any profit from that training.
So anyway, we can go over.
I didn't realize he was not.
No, he was really the trustee, the basic age he is.
Well, in 1928, it was decided that I should leave my parents' house, and my father found me through one of our relatives, a non-paid position in one of the prominent Berlin art galleries.
You told me that.
Yeah.
An auction house.
The owner called G-R-A-U-P-E, I think it was.
It was a remarkable myth.
So his father didn't want him, didn't encourage him to go on to school?
No.
No, nobody got, you know, in Germany, you learned reading in the first, eighth grade and learned the basic of math in the first, eighth grade.
And unless you wanted to do study, you didn't go any further.
You go one extra year because that kept you a little bit better in the army.
But this Paul who, Graupe, that was the person who basically gave your husband the idea that he might want to go into the book.
No, it was Uncle Emil.
I see, that's right.
At the time I came to his business, it was located in a palace in one of the most elegant quarters of Berlin.
There was a lot of snobbishness, blah, blah, blah.
The head of the inter-Korean book department was a young man.
Yeah, he committed suicide later on.
He immigrated to England and committed suicide, one of the many who did not really survive.
Well, the auctions themselves were society events where I got acquainted with the Berlin elite.
I remember only a few of these people, one of whom was Dr. Richard Strauss, a composer who collected English color prints of the 18th century.
I told you it's a little bit like self-speed.
...that I began my career at the wrong end.
Dealing in real books can, for some gifted individuals, become a glamorous profession, although only really as much as that of a dealer in great art.
But for the majority of the profession, it is a moderate, though often fascinating, undertaking.
And how moderate a way I have to create a bookseller operates was made evident to me by my second job in the field.
After a year and a half in Berlin, I should spend a half a year in Paris,
You told me about this.
Monsieur Frederick, F-R-E-D-E-R-I-C, Monnier, M-O-N-I-E-R.
A small shop in the Rue des Clichy, C-L-I-C-H-Y.
That's interesting, only because it's not at all in the car team where all the book dealers are.
Okay.
Well, this is good.
I'm really glad you're doing it.
I'm only interested in the book stuff, as you can say.
Yeah, I mean, it's fine.
I just don't.
He was happy at Munich, and even more so after I was joined by Anne, and it's A-N-N-E, you have an E in the name, okay.
Who continued to lock her law studies at the university after having attended... Now, I had 13 years of school, because you couldn't go to the university, but nobody... And I always wanted to study law, so... So you studied at Heidelberg?
I started in...
Heidelberg, then Jönig, then Frankfurt, then Jönig again.
And you were introduced by his brother, Eric.
Right.
Who had known him from some time.
He fell in love with Anne Wright.
Right.
Her motto was, Wer glücklich ist, verdient zu sein.
The one who is happy deserves it.
Happy deserves being happy.
That's great.
Yeah.
It's Dehmel, D-E-H-M-E-L.
I mean, it's a German poet who says that.
Let me just say what he said about you.
She was and is the most cheerful person I ever met, and her cheerful outlook on life has sustained me now for more than 50.
Exactly.
He always said, he never said he married me because I was beautiful or bright or anything, but only because I was always in a good mood.
And I can tell you it took a few years where it was hard to be in a good mood.
You know, when he was interned and I had a baby of two months and a boy of three years and no money and no person in the near neighborhood.
Let me read this because this is very important.
On January 31st, 1933, I passed by a news poster named Ludwig Strasse, L-U-D-W-I-G S-T-R-A-S-S-E,
in Munich.
The wording was short but probably the most portentous of the century.
It said that the president of the German Reich had appointed Adolf Hitler, the leader of the strongest party in the German parliament, as chancellor.
The triumph of evil, long dreaded but never really believed, had arrived.
I decided to go home to Frankfurt and await further developments.
I spent the rest of the year in my palace house doing some business on my own.
But much of this time was spent by making plans for the future.
The measures the Nazis took against the Jews were applied progressively.
This led many Jews to delude themselves by wishfully thinking that they could accommodate themselves to the changed conditions.
Since the alternative was leaving their homeland to start a new life in a foreign country, a difficult decision to make.
Their hesitation was understandable.
Nobody was able to pursue the horrible ending of the story that had just begun.
The decision of my mother at the time had come for us to leave the country, which you told us, which saved us.
The reasoning was that while there might still be time to leave later, the time to be admitted by other countries would be limited.
This was a prophetic view.
By the end of 1933, the dispersion of our family began.
One year later, my parents had found a new home in Amsterdam, and with them, my youngest brother and my only sister, who both later settled in Palestine.
My brother Eric had left for America, and I started to build myself a new existence in Paris.
With money provided by my father, I was able to buy a section of Mrs...
Halle Stark, H-A-L-L-E, which you told me.
These were all books in the exact and occult sciences and some medicine, which determined the direction of my business up to this day.
I forgot the occult sciences, but you kept them up, actually.
My office was a hole in the wall on the ground floor of an apartment building near the Medellin, M-A-D-E-I-N-A, Madeleine.
It consisted of two bookshelves with a small desk in between and very little space to move around.
Anne had already moved to France several months earlier after she had found a job in an orphan asylum in Paris.
You told me all about that.
Yeah.
Okay.
In August 1934, you were married by the mayor of the 8th Alain Giesemar in Paris.
I'm going to go ahead.
One day, an Englishman of about my age appeared in my office and asked if I had any early books on alchemy.
That was the subject.
A-L-C-H-E-M-Y.
This was one of my specialties at that time.
I eagerly took one book after another from my shelves.
The customer looked at them shortly and piled them up on my desk.
When I showed him everything I had, he asked, any more?
And then said, please send them to me.
He gave me his card, which showed that his name was Denis, D-E-N-I-S, one N, Duveen, D-U-V-E-E-N, and that he lived in one of the elegant new apartment houses near the Invalides, I-N-V-A-L-I-D-E-S.
Invalides, yeah.
It turned out that he was a chemist from a rich English family who was doing some work at the Sorbonne at the time.
During a sickness, somebody had given him John Read, R-E-A-D, Read's book, Pray You to Chemistry, to read, which contained many attractive illustrations from early books and alchemy.
Pardon me, these pictures had appealed to him, and he asked Maurice E-T-T-I-N-G-H-A-U-S-E-N, the only English bookseller in Paris he knew, this is the first thing he told me about.
Whether these books were still available for purchase, Hayden Housen sent them to me, and he became my first substantial customer.
It also was the first time that I had the opportunity to build up an important collection from its beginnings.
Dennis was extremely generous to me.
He never bargained and also let me work on the catalog of his collection.
Oh, you didn't tell me that.
That was very important.
This meant, of course, an enormous change in our financial situation.
as it relieved us from our constant worrying about money.
So that was very important.
Claude was born in 1936, and so there we go.
You know?
I think he does.
I think that's excellent.
Yeah, that's good stuff.
You see, all I'm really interested in is... So tell me about his mind.
Tell me.
Now, you're a... What do you mean about his mind?
Well, his intellect.
He was a great reader.
and a very careful reader.
You barely open one of our books, that isn't what they called in France, trophée.
You know what a truffle is?
Something is put in, you know, where he is cutting out there.
He was also an ardent writer to the New York Times.
Wrote letters?
Letters to the New York Times.
Did they publish a lot of them?
Yes.
And so just...
Now there is a book out, a new book on Thomas Mann by Anthony Heilberg.
In the midst of the book, I think on page 41, 141 of 142, I cannot swear to it, I don't have the book here, it says, this information comes to me by Emil Offenbacher.
No, I'm not kidding.
Because it's not just from the New York Times that he got it.
His mother was
the girlfriend before I came onto the line.
And we met each other again, you know.
And Emil said that he felt, when you really did you see, that the L. Koenig pointed towards a homosexual relationship.
You know, in fact.
That's a surprise.
Who's the author of this man book?
Heilbutt.
Anthony Heilbutt.
H-E-I-L.
I have it, I think.
B-U-T-T.
He wrote a very interesting book, which was called Riders in Exile.
I know his book.
Yeah.
Excited paradise or something.
Excited paradise, something like this.
He's the same age as my daughter, so they went to high school together.
And they were never friendly, but the parents were friendly.
And I heard him interview the other day on WQF, you know.
The interview always in the afternoon, Lopat.
I turned on the radio.
because I cannot read as much.
I had a cataract operation, and so I'm still a little bit handicapped.
And so I turned on the radio more often than I said, huh, that all sounds very familiar.
He interviewed Anthony, so I listened to it.
So we were talking... So you wanted to know what... Well, he wasn't formally educated, but here he is recognized as the great bookseller in his field.
Yes, because he worked on it.
I mean, and he worked
I mean, he really sat in his office for morning to night and was happy.
Sometimes he played some music with it, but when he was very young at one point, I think he wanted to be a conductor, but that didn't last very long.
And the other thing is that, I mean, he never wanted to study.
Very strange, studied all his life, but never wanted to study.
He came as a death from a very orthodox family, and you couldn't take every job, you know.
You had all these restrictions.
You didn't work on Saturday, you didn't do this, you didn't do that.
And when he thought he wanted to be a composer, or not a composer, a conductor, his father told him very quickly, that's not for the wrong, what might you?
You cannot do that, you know.
strictly eating all these kosher food and so, you see, we were restricted.
Can I just ask you briefly, why did you pick Queens?
How did you manage to come out to Queens?
I can tell you that exactly.
My mother is, I don't know, my parents came here too before we came.
They both died before we arrived.
She had two brothers here who lived in Washington Heights.
I don't know if you have ever heard anything about these.
It was family reasons that they've worked.
Washington Heights was full of Germans, of German Jews who had moved there.
So I went up there.
That's not for me.
Two little children, high houses, old houses.
And then someone said, I think it was my mother-in-law, said, why don't you go out to Queens one day who was with me in class?
This out there, there you have Queens and things.
So I went to Queens.
Do you like it here?
Love it.
I love it.
In between, Amy just said, you really should live in Manhattan.
I said, all right, George, you go every day to Manhattan.
You went every day to the public library, you know.
You go every day to Manhattan.
You look.
I am working in Queens.
I worked in
I worked in Flushing High School.
Or you did social work?
Social work.
As a social worker.
Anyway, I said, you look.
I mean, you have seen three apartments.
We go and look at them together.
That never was that hard.
That's great.
You know what?
I'm going to get back into Manhattan.
It's my third apartment here in Queens.
But you've been here for 40 years, I think you said.
Longer.
58.
Yeah, about, yeah.
I mean, we came in this one since 58, but we came in 41 years.
Well, that's 39 years.
Yeah, in 41 we had a three-room apartment with two children.
That wasn't very big.
And we stayed much longer than we had planned to because the war came, because we thought as soon as we are now in two weeks, we'll find a bigger apartment.
But first, there were no more apartments during the war.
Nothing was built, and...
We had no money either.
Emil earned $15 a piece.
Now, are these Emil's books?
Are your books?
A mixture of both of ours.
Some, we left, as I said, everything in Paris.
We had gone on vacation.
They were thinking of not coming back.
And then a friend.
And we had a very decent, although we had just moved to Saint-Maudet from Vassette,
The Monty was more elegant, and they had a large apartment there.
And he had put everything we had in storage.
He was a very decent man, because we lived there three months.
And then we went on vacation and never came back.
And after the war, we wrote him.
And he wrote back that, indeed, he had all our furniture.
And he had, you know,
He put it all in storage.
If we wanted it, he'd be glad to send it to us, provided we would pay him the fee that he had paid.
If, on the other hand, we didn't want it anymore, he thought that we wouldn't mind if he'd sell the things.
At that same moment, I wrote to a French friend who was still there.
although Jewish but French, that if she could start dig up my study books so that I could show them to Columbia, because in order to get into graduate school in Columbia, I had to prove some proof what I had done.
And she said she certainly would look.
She looked, and then she wrote back and said, I found you, say, I'm the mayor.
But let me ask you something.
A, what do you want to do with your books?
B, what do you want to do with your furniture?
And we wrote back, not much.
We would love to have our books sent, if that would be possible.
And she said, I'd be glad to have your books sent.
And I wondered if we could also have your furniture, because we have absolutely nothing left.
So she got the furniture.
And with part of the furniture, her parents came to
San Francisco.
Okay.
And so you got some of the books back.
Right.
We got the books back.
These are books that you left behind.
Yeah.
And that's why they are in such poor condition.
They are all... And what year was this that you finally got them?
After the war.
Oh, so it was quite a few years.
Yeah.
And half of them we threw out because they were in such poor condition.
And some I knew, I knew some before here, but
Most of them came from that.
Listen, I've got to get into the city before I practice.